362         Culver Cliff 
             and the
Isle of Wight at War
Watching the Skies ... 
Searching the Seas
Appendix Two - Eyewitness
Ray Edmunds - ENSA Child Entertainer on the Isle of 
Wight
Authors Note: Ray Edmund’s story is possibly unique. He is also probably 
the youngest member to have performed with ENSA during WW2. As part 
of the Concert Party he was able to visit the majority of the military bases 
and gun emplacements across the Isle of Wight from the first days of the 
war - including hugely secure and secret sites such as Bembridge Fort. This 
would have been simply impossible for any civilian not in the ‘Concert 
Party’ and certainly not possible for a child who was just nine years old 
when war broke out.
Sometimes performing on makeshift stages of carpet covered packing cases, 
or under canvas but usually in hurriedly cleared halls or barrack blocks he 
also walked out on the largest stages on the Island to packed audiences. The 
young boy cheerfully jumped into the back of army trucks and ambulances 
to join a small group of 10 or 12 fellow performers, all members of the 
STARDUST  Concert Party - who were then taken to secret camps anywhere 
on the island. Of course he peeked out through the canvas truck sides and 
the Isle of Wight is not a huge area, so he usually recognised the places 
when he got there.
Ray also performed for many other charity events throughout the war, 
sometimes at the largest venues on the Isle of Wight. All this was achieved 
alongside continual rehearsals and practice in Ryde. Of course Ray was also 
still at school.
Today Ray is 86 years young and remembers his wartime ENSA service 
and all the concerts with great humour and enjoyment. Although memories 
have of course faded a little, here is his story as told to Tim Wander in the 
Summer of 2017.

363Born in March 1931 , Ray Edmunds performed with ENSA as a child singer, 
tap dancer and entertainer from the early days of WW2 - often billed as 
‘The Wonder Child, Master Raymond Edmunds!’.
As part of an ENSA concert party he travelled across the Isle of Wight 
entertaining troops and civilians alike at a wide variety of military bases 
and gun emplacements under strict wartime conditions and restrictions.
Transport varied between each concert. There would be a knock at his 
parents’ door on Fairlee Road in Newport around 7 p.m. and usually an 
army lorry or truck with canvas sides would be waiting. If they were 
performing at Yarmouth for the Red Cross an ambulance would be waiting 
but all the vehicles had their headlights covered with black out ‘slit’ shields. 
Sometimes it would even be the commanding officer’s staff car waiting to 
take the young boy to his concert.  His elder sister Gladys liked to act as 
chaperone but usually one of the ENSA Company took on the role, but on 
stage Ray was a confident solo performer. Ray regularly performed at the 
Puckpool Mortar Battery including a very successful concert on Boxing 
Day (probably in 1941). He remembers that many of the audience were 
from the Fleet Air Arm and that the concerts were always much better 
organised and on a proper stage in the requisitioned Holiday camp’s main 
hall. The ‘stage manager’ there, although now in uniform had been a stage 
manager in London before the war and liked to get everything exactly right 
for the concert party and the large audience.
Ray particularly enjoyed performing for the Royal Army Medical Corps 
(R.A.M.C) near Yarmouth where many of the members of the staff were 
ex-London Dance Band members who joined the ENSA concerts as the 
backing band. It was his first experience of working with professional 
musicians.
Initial research indicated that these concerts might have been at the Totland 
Hotel, which had been taken over during WW2 by the Royal Medical Corps. 
But Ray is convinced that the venue was further on and we now think that 
he performed at HMS Manatee .
[HMS Manatee  was an amalgamation of Norton Lodge (Norton Grange) 
and Savoy Camp. During the Second World War, as HMS  Manatee , it was 
a combined operations shore establishment used for the training of officers 
and ratings in the use of landing craft. The base was commissioned on 
15/11/42 and paid off  in September 1944. Many Thames bargees and their 
barges were requisitioned for Operation Overlord (D-Day) and were trained 
at HMS Manatee. ]
364Blanche Kennard remembered: 
‘We used to go to dances at HMS Manatee  in the Drill Hall, hoping to meet 
a sailor. One night a soldier said to me, ‘Come out with me tomorrow and 
I’ll take you to the Pictures. If I don’t turn up, you’ll know why.’ There were 
lots and lots of little boats outside the Pier – you could have walked across 
them. The next day they were all gone – it was D-Day 1944. So many 
people were lost, so many people died.’
                       Norton Grange                         Malta House, 
                                                                         the hospital part of HMS Manatee
Ray’s ENSA Concert Party also performed at Bembridge Fort, where the 
stage was built in the NAFFI (The Navy, Army and Air Force Institutes) 
canteen and mess Hall to the right of the main parade ground and directly 
opposite the main entrance. The audience filled the room, with the 
Commanding Office seated in front, and the large audience drawn from all 
the services based at the Fort, including Army, Navy, Air Force and Home 
Guard. This was a unique part of the Forts operational status during WW2 
- the RAF personnel manned the RADAR station, the Navy the Submarine 
Loop detection systems and the Army manned the anti-aircraft guns, defence 
of the Fort and controlled the huge gun batteries on the Culver headland and 
at Nodes Point on the other side of Bembridge Harbour.
[The Navy, Army and Air Force Institutes (NAAFI) is an organisation 
created by the British government in 1921 to run recreational establishments 
needed by the British Armed Forces, and to sell goods to servicemen and 
their families. It still runs clubs, bars, shops, supermarkets, launderettes, 
restaurants, cafés and other facilities on most British military bases and also 
canteens on board Royal Navy ships. Commissioned officers are not usually 
supposed to use the NAAFI clubs and bars, since their messes provide these 
facilities and their entry, except on official business, is considered to be 
an intrusion into junior ranks’ private lives. But for the ENSA concerts 

365everyone joined in.]
During WW2 getting onto to Culver Down was quite difficult. You had 
to pass three sentry posts, but the magic phrase ‘concert party’ always got 
you past. From the main road the right turn onto Culver Cliff was met with 
a barrier and guard at the bottom of the hill. There was a second guard 
post half way up the hill on the left hand side and again at the entrance to 
Bembridge Fort, where eventually the transport could then noisily crossed 
the draw bridge over the dry moat, to park inside the Fort. Ray was able 
to return to Bembridge Fort, now owned by the National Trust, in August 
2017. It was a great moment as he crossed the bridge for the first time in 
over 75 years. Ray is now convinced that he performed in the NAFFI mess 
hall - the long building to the lower right hand side of the photograph above.
At most venues the concerts were attended by 50 to 100 people, mainly 
soldiers or military personnel including Doctors and Nurses. Stages 
were built for the night, improvised curtains and lights were erected and 
rows of chairs were placed out front - usually with a wicker chair for the 
Commanding Officer (CO). Afterwards, the concert party were usually 
entertained in the Sergeants’ Mess.
The Stardust Company’ s  ENSA concerts always opened with the ‘Bone 
Ranger’ from Hunny Hill (in Newport) who literally played the bones .
[No American minstrel show of the 1800s was complete without a bones  
player. In fact, the end man in a semi-circle of musicians was always called 
‘Mr. Bones.’ His job was not only to keep the beat but also to engage in 
comical exchanges. A player may use a pair of bones in each hand, or just a 
single pair in one hand. Their ‘click-it-y’ sound is the essential ingredient to 
playing the bones and once the triple and double clicks have been mastered, 
they can be combined to create complex combinations of rhythmic sounds.]
The Bone Ranger  was usually followed by George Jones from Pyle Street 
(in Newport) who played musical medleys on a set of different sized 
harmonicas.
There were ten or twelve members in the concert party - and they helped 
each other with costumes and makeup. Ray always sang several solo 
musical numbers, performed a song and dance routine and often then sang 
a duet with one of the female members of the cast..
Ray also performed at the Whippingham Heavy Anti-Aircraft (HAA) gun 
emplacement (HAA), in one of the large Nissan huts. He also performed 
366at  the Hamstead HAA, Broadlands and Albany Barracks (where the tune 
of Colonel Bogey  was composed). Ray remembers passing the Black 
Watch Regiment living under canvas located in the copse at Fishbourne. 
The Newport Arboretum also became an army camp and the Royal Signals 
Corps were based at Fairlee House with many despatch riders arriving and 
leaving at all times.
Fairlee House
At his concerts at Broadlands on Staplers road there were lots of ATS 
personnel in the audience. Ray also performed at the Brambles Camp and 
Golden Hill Fort.
Brambles Holiday Camp and Ballroom

367[There were lots of dances for the troops at Brambles Holiday Camp 
Ballroom, and very popular they were. In 1942 large numbers of tents were 
erected on the cliff side of Afton Downs, where a gun site was established. 
The troops (2nd Canadian Infantry Division) who assembled there were the 
ones who were sent on that fateful assault on Dieppe. The local girls met 
quite a lot of them at the dances at the Brambles and many of those young 
soldiers lost their lives. it is likely Ray performed for them.]
Golden Hill Fort
[Golden Hill Fort was a defensible barracks built as part of the Palmerston 
defences by the 1859 Royal Commission on the Defence of the United 
Kingdom to provide people to man the defences at the western end of the 
Isle of Wight. 

368Built in hexagonal form, it accommodated 8 officers and 128 men, and had 
its own hospital. During the Second World War Golden Hill Fort housed 
both British and Canadian Infantry and acted as barracks for the nearby 
Hatherwood battery.]
From 1940 soldiers from many different battalions were arriving in great 
numbers for training and the military commandeered most of the hotels 
and large houses across the Isle of Wight. The majority of the Victorian 
Palmerston Forts, originally built to protect the Isle of Wight against the 
French in the 1850s, were also pushed back into use.
Ray’s father was a skipper who throughout WW2 bought supplies to the 
Island in a boat with a crew of four (Skipper, mate, deckhand and an engineer) 
across the Solent, working from Newport Quay usually to Portsmouth.
Sometimes (and strictly against regulations) Ray was able to travel across 
to Southampton with his father. Ray remembers seeing (what he later found 
out were) the Mulberry Harbour sections under construction and the barrage 
balloons flying over Southampton. He also remembers after D-Day seeing 
the German prisoners disembarking from the American landing craft – little 
knowing at the time that his future father in law would be German!
In wartime Britain, struggling under strict rationing, the concert party had 
one perk. As Ray remembers:
‘We were usually entertained in the Sergeants Mess after a show with a 
finger buffet. But at Swainston Manor it was always in the Officers’ Mess 
with a cooked meal, sausage and mash, seated at a large round table and 
served by the Officer’s Batman.’
[A batman is a soldier or airman assigned to a commissioned officer as 
a personal servant. Before the advent of motorized transport, an officer’s 
batman was also in charge of the officer’s ‘bat-horse’ that carried the pack 
saddle with his officer’s kit during a campaign.]
369Swainston Manor c. 1944
Swainston Camp, in the grounds of Swainston Manor, along Calbourne Road is something 
of mystery. The site was very secure, the concert party had to pass two checkpoints, 
including a sentry in the road and another on the bridge.
Swainston Manor c. 1944

370[At this time we are unclear about what the military were doing at 
Swainston manor during WW2 and why there was a large contingent of 
army personnel based there. It also opens the possibility that the manor 
and camp was deliberately attacked and destroyed by air in 1941 due to 
some important operational use. Swainston Manor is the largest and oldest 
building in the area.
The house was for many years the property of the Bishops of Winchester, 
until it was seized by King Edward 1. Later it became the property of the 
Barrington family, in whose ownership it remained for 300 years. In 1941 
the House was attacked by a German air raid and seriously damaged by 
incendiary bombs. Full repairs were begun in 1950 and they took four years 
to complete at a cost of £50,000.  The Manor then became a private school, 
until in 1981 it became an hotel for the first time. The oldest part of the 
Manor is the 12th century chapel which survived the attack, but the hotel 
closed in 2005 and at the moment the building’s use is unknown.]
From the Isle of Wight County Press : November 8th, 1941
Troops were entertained at their Newport mess by BBC broadcaster Miss 
Beatrice Pugh of Newport. She sang requests from the soldiers including 
Danny  Boy, Because , and I’ll Walk Beside You . Other acts in the show 
included male-impersonations, accordion, and tap dancing by Miss Ann 
Powell and songs by The Wonder Child, Master Raymond Edmunds.
ENTERTAINING THE TROOPS
During the last few months troops stationed in the Island have greatly 
enjoyed concerts at their camps given by a company of talented variety artists 
led by Mr. Harry Wellspring, the well known baritone, of St. John’s-road, 
Newport, styling themselves ‘The Stardust Company.’ Mr. Wellspring’s  
experience with ENSA in 1941 has stood him in good stead in arranging 
the programmes. He knows what the young people in the Services want in 
the way of entertainment, and the ‘Stardusts’ have been enthusiastically 
received everywhere. In addition to Mr. Wellspring, the company includes 
Doris Payton (contralto), Audrey Wellspring (soprano), Jose Wellspring 
(impressionist), Maureen Jolliffe, Joy Pardy, and Raymond Edmunds (song 
and dances), Gerald Jackson (crooner), George Linington (comedian and 
compere), and Rita Squire (pianist). Several of the artists, including the 
producer, have the proud record of having appeared at over 400 concerts for 
the troops during the war.
Mr Wellspring ran the furniture shop in Newport (which is now the co-op).
371One of Ray’s teachers was Miss Iris Barnes from Portsmouth who used a 
room above Arnett’s Wet Fish Shop in Pyle Street, Newport. She eventually 
gave up to join the Portsmouth Police Force.
Ray was next taught by Madaleine Pleninger who had a studio above the 
Bellevue Garage in East Street, Ryde which was owned by her parents (Ray 
still remembers the telephone number - 2160). Ray attended Madaleine’s 
dance school all during the war - catching the bus from Newport to Ryde, 
rehearsing in room over the Bellevue garage.
Madaleine also performed at various charity functions and would include 
Ray to perform their  ‘OH Sarah OH Eenery’  routine which was always 
well received. For this they sat on a log (that was on wheels) and he played 
the (very) young and innocent yokel farmer and she his girlfriend. At the 
end the log would be pulled off stage usually with Ray still seated!
[In April 1946 that the Bellevue Players staged their first performance 
(‘Poison Pen’) under the producership of their founder— Mrs Madaleine 
Cooper (then Miss Pleninger), at the Esplanade Pavilion, and they have 
played there every Easter since in addition to many other.]
Ray also performed at the Ryde Pavilion (now the ice rink) although this 
was a non ENSA charity concert with all proceeds going to war efforts.
He remembers that the Reverend Harold Ewbank, the Vicar from St Mary’s 
at Carisbrooke from 1933-1946, was in the cast and was a very popular 
conjurer there but he was not part of the ENSA concert party due to his 
other duties. But he is well remembered for riding his large motorcycle and 
sidecar around the Island as he visited his parishioners. Apparently he was 
also a mean sling thrower!
Ray also performed at the Medina and Commodore Theatres and the 
Pavilion, Ryde.
[The Commodore Cinema opened in August 1936. Ryde is the largest town 
on the Island, and the Commodore was the largest cinema built on the 
island, having a seating capacity of 1,507 in stalls and circle levels. It was 
operated as an independent cinema by Ryde Cinemas. It was fitted with full 
stage facilities and there was a cafe and a ballroom inside the building.]
At one such Ryde show starring the famous vaudeville and radio Comedian 
Gillie Potter, Ray, whilst waiting in the wings, felt a tap on his shoulder. He 
turned to see the man himself standing next to him who said ‘Are you the 
372Call Boy?’ he replied ‘No, I’m on next!’       
[The call boy (or call girl) is the job title of a stagehand in the theatre. They 
are hired by either the director, producer or stage crew chief.]
Original Program for one of Ray’s performances 
starring alongside Gillie Potter

373    
[Hugh William Peel (14th 
September 1887 – 4th March 
1975), better known as Gillie 
Potter , was an English comedian 
and broadcaster displaying his 
own particular brand of acerbic 
facetiousness. Gillie Potter 
was very popular for his radio 
broadcasts during the early 1930s with his famous opening line: ‘Good 
Evening England, this is Gillie Potter speaking to you in English’ which 
mocked the then pomposity of the BBC.
Potter cultivated an individual style and persona, wearing a straw boater, 
wide grey flannel trousers, an ‘Old Borstolian’ blazer and carrying a 
notebook with a rolled umbrella. Potter spoke to his audience in ‘deadpan 
tones on unlikely and esoteric themes peppered with literary, historical, 
and linguistic allusion. Though a classical education was needed fully to 
appreciate his act, it was widely popular. Many of his monologues revolved 
round the imaginary village of Hogsnorton - one of radio’s first ‘imaginary 
communities’ .]
[He began his career on stage, with straight acting and then later in Variety - 
he made a great impression in the Royal Variety Performance of 1930: radio 
brought him to an even wider audience and its intimacy suited his style very 
well. He was a difficult person in real life: The BBC wanted him to perform 

374in front of an audience, thinking that the laughter would make him sound 
even funnier. He objected to this: and the gramophone records (obviously 
recorded without an audience) show him to be correct - his monologues 
don’t need any help.
Gillie Potter continued to broadcast through the war but his style went out of 
fashion in the post-war years. His last radio series was broadcast in 1952.]
Ray Edmunds c. 1943

375Ray Edmunds c. 1941

376

377

378Ray remembers:
‘I was young. I never remember being scared – it was really exciting. No-
one locked their doors, there was a great community spirit – we were all in 
it together. ‘
‘One of the most exciting things was getting the chance to sit in a shot down 
German ME109 fighter being exhibited where Morrison’s supermarket is 
today. It cost 6d.!’
Thought to be a Messerschmitt Bf109E. Grey 2. from 2/JG53 based at Rennes 
in France. Piloted by Feldwebel C. Hansen it force landed at Bathingbourne 
on 16/8/40 and was subsequently displayed at Newport Fire Headquarters 
to raise money for the local ‘Spitfire Fund’. Hansen survived the crash with 
no serious injuries and surrendered to local farm workers who transferred 
him into the custody of the local Constable custody in Newport after first 
being taken for a stiff drink in the nearby Fighting Cocks pub!
Ray’s largest concerts and his best audiences were at Puckpool where he 
always performed dressed as a sailor boy. He remembers performing in a 
huge ‘hangar’ (probably the holiday camp dining room) by floodlight on 
boxing day - he still remembers the audience shouting ‘encore… encore’!

379‘I used to get requests for songs  - my favourite songs were, Some of these 
days and  I’m a yankee doodle dandy’.
During the Second World War Puckpool battery and the neighbouring land, 
that included Warners Holiday Camp, were requisitioned by the Fleet Air 
Arm in 1939 to become HMS Medina . This was a Fleet Air Arm training 
facility, although the civilian ARP (Air Raid Precautions) had a telephone 
centre in one of the 9.2 inch shelters and the Observer Corps had a post on 
the east Mortar magazine, which was used to plot enemy air raids. In 1940 a 
gas decontamination centre was built behind the 6-inch gun emplacements. 
The original 9.2 inch gun emplacements were used to hold anti-aircraft 
guns.
By 1943 the Fleet Air Arm left the battery, which was transferred to the 
Royal Navy’s 35th Maintenance Unit, tasked with converting barges into 
landing craft ready for D-Day as well as landing craft training support and 
degaussing ships as protection against magnetic mines.]
During the war Ray was a pupil at Barton boy’s school - in his own words, 
a ‘Barton Bonehead’ . He remembers that they were very helpful, especially 
the headmaster. His fellow pupils never made fun of his night time work 
and concerts - even when all the makeup wouldn’t come off! He was told 
never to tell anyone where he had been the night before nor whom he had 
performed for - even his parents never knew.
Ray remembered in 2017 being sternly told back in 1940 that... ‘ Careless 
Talk Costs Lives’.  Of course he never knew where he and the ENSA concert 
party was going to perform in advance, he just waited for the knock at the 
door.
Perhaps Ray’s most memorable concert occurred at the Rew Street Heavy 
Anti-Aircraft (HAA) battery on the headland overlooking the Solent. He 
was performing on stage in one of the Nissen Huts alongside the gun 
emplacements when the battery went to action stations as an enemy raid 
developed over Southampton.
The concert stopped immediately, all the lights went out, and the gun crews 
rushed to action. Ray was ushered out of the hut and took shelter in the 
concrete bunker.
380Rew Street Bunker, 2017
As the six 3.7 inch Anti-Aircraft (AA) guns opened fire the entire ground 
shook - ‘It was like Guy Fawkes night as the planes headed over illuminated 
by search lights.’
[By 1943, when the Island’s heavy Anti-Aircraft gun battery sites were 
under the command of the 35th Anti-Aircraft Brigade, ten sites were listed 
as operational. Apart from Nettlestone and Whippingham, they were at 
Rew Street (Gurnard), Dame Anthony’s Common (Binstead), Lynn Farm 
(south-west of Havenstreet), Porchfield, Hamstead, Thorley Street, Cliff 
End Battery and Brighstone. At that stage all were equipped with 3.7 inch 
guns (and Bofors guns) - four in most cases although Rew Street had six. 
The sites were mostly manned by Home Guard personnel although each 
also had a RADAR system manned by RAF personnel.]
One of his last wartime concerts was in August 1944 by which time the 
military concerts had all but stopped as the majority of the troops had left 
the island and were now fighting in Normandy after the D-Day landings.
At one time during the war Ray had even been booked to be auditioned for 
a review in London in the West End. But it was cancelled due to a problem 
obtaining a theatre. It was apparently a guaranteed role for which he would 
have been perfect. He remembers taking his letter of engagement to ask his 
headmaster for permission to go as it was going to be a 5 or 6 week run. 

381Even though it came to nothing Ray has no regrets, in his words, ‘it would 
have been a very uncertain path!’
After the war Ray considered a career on the stage but as the country 
struggled with post war austerity he realised he needed a trade. His uncle 
found him an electrician’s job at J.S. Samuel Whites that offered a better 
career path that a life under the limelight, although he retained his love of 
musical theatre, attending many shows post-war - he still has many of the 
show brochures.
Another factor was that as the war came to an end his voice broke, which 
effectively ended his ‘ wonder boy ’ singing sensation career overnight. He 
also thinks now that he also pushed his voice and young throat far too hard, 
performing and rehearsing almost every night - often in smoky rooms and 
without any warming up or preparation - but he always enjoyed the singing 
more that the dancing!
There was always a good audience for the ENSA concerts and the noise was 
tremendous. But as soon as it was announced that there was a soloist, and as 
soon as the music started the audience was always as good as gold. Lovely 
and quiet. It was a pleasure to do those shows.
At the end of the war in 1945, ENSA itself was disbanded. There was no 
particular fuss made about it, all the concert parties and entertainers just all 
broke up and went back to their civilian lives.
From 1940 to 1945 Ray Edmunds gave many concerts all over the Isle 
of Wight. When most boys of his age were out collecting shrapnel and 
watching the planes fighting overhead he was practising, rehearsing and 
performing.
Unlike the adult performers he was never paid for his concerts and unlike 
ENSA members, as a child performer he was not eligible for the War 
Defence Medal. Ray doesn’t seem overly worried and says he thinks he 
was so fortunate to be able to take part and meet such interesting and lovely 
people.
ENSA was designed to bring together both professional and amateur 
entertainers to perform in munitions factories, garrison theatres, village halls 
and, after D-Day, in tents and bomb damaged buildings across Europe, to 
bring a little relief from the ever-present danger and the gloom of rationing 
and the blackout.
382Young Ray Edmunds,  ‘The Wonder Child, Master Raymond Edmunds!’ , 
did more than his fair share.
It has been my privilege to sit with Ray and his wife Gisella, enjoy their 
hospitality and friendship and to tell his story in these pages. 
Today I genuinely think he underestimates the contribution he made in 
those difficult times, especially given his age.  
Above all his story deserves to be told and in many ways personifies all 
that made the Home Front so important to the conduct and eventual 
success of the Second World War. 
For his efforts to entertain the troops at home he received a treasured letter
from the Prime Minister’s wife, Clementine Churchill.

383Ray pictured in 2017
Ray Edmunds returns to Bembridge Fort, August 2017
The first time he has returned in 75 years.

384Other Wartime Child Entertainers
Child entertainers during WW2 were rare. Perhaps the best known is Petula 
Clark, born on 15th November 1932. In October 1942, the 9-year-old Petula 
made her radio debut while attending a BBC broadcast with her father. She 
was there trying to send a message to an uncle stationed overseas, but the 
broadcast was delayed by an air raid. During the bombing, the producer 
requested that someone perform to settle the jittery theatre audience, and 
she volunteered a rendering of ‘Mighty Lak’ a Rose’ to an enthusiastic 
response. She then repeated her performance for the broadcast audience, 
launching a series of some 500 appearances in programmes designed to 
entertain the troops.

385Petula Clark frequently toured the United Kingdom nicknamed the  ‘Singing 
Sweetheart’ and performed for George VI, Winston Churchill and Bernard 
Montgomery. She soon became known as ‘Britain’ s Shirley Temple’  and 
was considered a mascot by the British Army, whose troops plastered her 
photos on their tanks for good luck as they advanced into battle. In 1945, 
Petula Clark was featured in the comic Radio Fun, in which she was billed 
as ‘Radio’s Merry Mimic’.
‘Boy Bruce, the Mighty Atom’.
Bruce Forsyth started in show business with a song, tap dance, ukulele and 
accordion act called ‘ Boy Bruce, the Mighty Atom’ . His first appearance 
was at the Theatre Royal in Bilston, with The Great Marzo  at the top of the 
bill. The 11 year old Bruce Forsyth made his television debut in 1939 as a 
child, singing and dancing on BBC talent show ‘Come and Be Televised’, 
broadcast from Radiolympia, and introduced by Jasmine Bligh.
Forsyth continued to perform through the Second World War. In 1943, 
tragedy struck when his older brother John was killed in Scotland during an 
RAF training mission. Forsyth threw himself into work for the Red Cross 
doing song-and-dance acts at American military camps all over the country. 
Since the older performers were already at war, he was in great demand.
